# EmberFire Utilities

This addon provides some useful utilities on top of [EmberFire](https://github.com/firebase/emberfire).

## Installation

```bash
ember install emberfire-utils
```

> Your app needs to have EmberFire installed for this addon to work.

## Features

* [Multi-path updates](#multi-path-updates)
* [Storage manipulations](#storage-manipulations)
* [Flexible queries for flattened data structure and infinite scrolling](#flexible-queries)
* [`hasLimited` model relationship](#haslimited-relationship)

## Usage

> You'll notice the `firebase-util` service that's used across the examples below. This service is automatically 
> injected in all your routes, controllers, and models.

### Multi-path updates

To write on multiple paths atomically in Firebase, call `update()` method on the `firebase-util` service.

```javascript
let fanoutObject = {};

fanoutObject['users/foo/firstName'] = 'Foo';
fanoutObject['users/bar/firstName'] = 'Bar';

this.get('firebaseUtil').update(fanoutObject).then(() => {
  // Do something after a succesful update
}).catch(error => {
  // Do something with `error`
});
```

#### Generate Firebase push ID

Should you need to generate a Firebase push ID for your multi-path updates, you can use `generateIdForRecord()` 
method on the `firebase-util` service. This returns a unique ID generated by Firebase's [`push()`](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/admin/save-data#getting-the-unique-key-generated-by-push) method.

```javascript
let pushId = this.get('firebaseUtil').generateIdForRecord('users');
```

### Storage manipulations

#### Uploading a file to Firebase Storage

To upload files in Firebase storage, call `uploadFile()` method on the `firebase-util` service.

```javascript
function onStateChange(snapshot) {
  let progress = (snapshot.bytesTransferred / snapshot.totalBytes) * 100;

  console.log('Upload is ' + progress + '% done');
}

this.get('firebaseUtil').uploadFile('images/foo.jpg', file, metadata, onStateChange).then(downloadURL => {
  // Do something with `downloadURL`
}).catch(error => {
  // Do something with `error`
});
```

* `file` should be a `Blob` or a `Uint8Array`.
* `metadata` and `onStateChange` are optional params.

#### Deleting a file in Firebase Storage

To delete files in Firebase storage, call `deleteFile()` method on the `firebase-util` service.

```javascript
this.get('firebaseUtil').deleteFile(url).then(() => {
  // Do something on success
}).catch(error => {
  // Do something with `error`
});
```

> `url` should be the HTTPS URL representation of the file.
> e.g. https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/b/bucket/o/images%20stars.jpg

### Flexible queries

To make things easy and familiar, `firebase-util` service provides methods for finding records that's similar 
with [`DS.Store`](http://emberjs.com/api/data/classes/DS.Store.html).

For the examples below, assume we have the following Firebase data:

```json
"users" : {
  "foo" : {
    "photoURL" : "foo.jpg",
    "username" : "bar"
  },
  "hello" : {
    "photoURL" : "hello.jpg",
    "username" : "world"
  }
},
"userFeeds": {
  "foo" : {
    "post_a" : true
  },
  "hello" : {
    "post_a" : true
  }
},
"posts" : {
  "post_a" : {
    "title" : "Title",
    "message" : "Message"
  }
}
```

#### Retrieving a single record

To retrieve a single record, call `findRecord()` method on the `firebase-util` service. This will return a 
promise that fulfills with the requested record in a plain object format.

```javascript
this.get('firebaseUtil').findRecord('referenceId', 'users/foo').then(record => {
  // Do something with `record`
}).catch(error => {
  // Do something with `error`
});
```

The first parameter of `findRecord()` should be a unique ID of your choice. This enables the service to return 
the cached record if it already exists. In addition, this prevents duplicate Firebase listeners should we have 
the instance to call `findRecord()` more than once on the same reference ID.

#### Retrieving multiple records

To retrieve multiple records, call `findAll()` method on the `firebase-util` service. This will return a 
promise that fulfills with the requested records; each one in a plain object format.

```javascript
this.get('firebaseUtil').findAll('users').then(records => {
  // Do something with `records`
}).catch(error => {
  // Do something with `error`
});
```

Notice that we don't pass a unique ID like the one in `findRecord()`. This is because unlike `findRecord()`, 
any changes made under the Firebase path **won't** be synchronized in realtime. So there's no need to cache 
the records or prevent duplicate listeners.

> Typically, it's bad practice to do a `value` listener on a path that has multiple records due to the potential 
> to download huge amounts of data whenever a property changes.

##### Serialized to plain objects

For `findRecord()` and `findAll()`, the records are serialized in plain object. For the `findRecord()` example 
above, the record will be serialized to:

```javascript
record = {
  id: 'foo',
  photoURL: 'foo.jpg',
  username: 'bar'
};
```

For `findAll()`:

```javascript
records = [{
  id: 'foo',
  photoURL: 'foo.jpg',
  username: 'bar'
}, {
  id: 'hello',
  photoURL: 'hello.jpg',
  username: 'world'
}];
```

Should we retrieve a record who's value isn't an object (e.g. `users/foo/username`), the record will be 
serialized to:

```javascript
record = {
  id: 'username',
  value: 'bar'
};
```

### Checking if record exists

To check if a record exists, call `isRecordExisting()` method on the `firebase-util` service. This returns a 
promise that fulfills to `true` if the record exists. Otherwise, `false`.

```javascript
this.get('firebaseUtil').isRecordExisting('users/foo').then(result => {
  // Do something with `result`
}).catch(error => {
  // Do something with `error`
});
```

### Querying for multiple records

To query for multiple records, call `query()` method on the `firebase-util` service. This returns a promise 
that fulfills to the requested records. This array will be mutated for every `child_added` and `child_removed` events.

Unlike `findRecord()` and `findAll()`, this serializes the records to a specified model.

```javascript
this.get('firebaseUtil').query('post', 'referenceId', 'userFeeds/foo', { limitToLast: 1 });
```

The first param is the model name and the fourth param are the Firebase filters which uses the same format as 
the one in [EmberFire](https://github.com/firebase/emberfire/blob/master/docs/guide/querying-data.md) with the
addition of supporting `orderByValue()` through `orderBy: '.value'`.

> Be wary of the gotchas when post processing the resolved records of the `query()` promise.
> With the constant mutation of your queried records depending on your filters and usage of  `next()` for 
> infinite scrolling, you may not get an accurate representation of your data.

#### Loading more records in your queries for infinite scrolling

Continuing the example above, we can load more records by calling `next()`.

```javascript
this.get('firebaseUtil').next('referenceId', 10);
```

We used the `referenceId` as an easy way to know which listener should load the next 10 records. Records would 
simply be pushed to the query result and will reflect to all variables and templates that uses it. This returns 
a promise that fulfills when the next set of records has been loaded.

> Because we used `limitToLast` in the example above, `next()` would load the next 10 `limitToLast` records.

### `hasLimited` relationship

Most of the time, we don't want to use the `hasMany()` relationship in our models because:

1. It loads all the data when we access it.
2. The related data gets nested in the parent model in Firebase. Which goes against the teaching in 
[Structure Your Database](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/web/structure-data) guide.

To solve those 2 problems above, use `hasLimited()` relationship. It has the same parameters as 
`firebaseUtil.query()` and it also works with infinite scrolling through `firebaseUtil.next()`.

```javascript
// app/models/user
import Model from 'ember-data/model';
import attr from 'ember-data/attr';

import hasLimited from 'emberfire-utils/utils/has-limited';

export default Model.extend({
  photoURL: attr('string'),
  username: attr('string'),
  posts: hasLimited('post', '$id_posts', 'userFeeds/$id', {limitToFirst: 20})
});

```

Notice the `$id`. It's a keyword that will be replaced by the model's ID.

> `hasLimited()` are read only.

## Compatibility

This addon currently supports Ember.js 2.8-LTS and EmberFire 2.0.x.

> I'm planning to support only the latest LTS version of Ember.js and the latest version EmberFire.

## Contributing

### Installation

* `git clone <repository-url>` this repository
* `cd emberfire-utils`
* `npm install`
* `bower install`

### Running

* `ember serve`
* Visit your app at [http://localhost:4200](http://localhost:4200).

### Running Tests

* `npm test` (Runs `ember try:each` to test your addon against multiple Ember versions)
* `ember test`
* `ember test --server`

### Building

* `ember build`

For more information on using ember-cli, visit [http://ember-cli.com/](http://ember-cli.com/).
